Lab 1: Footprint the Web Server
Lab Scenario

The first step of hacking web servers for a professional ethical hacker or pen tester is to collect as much information as possible about the target web server and analyze the collected information in order to find lapses in its current security mechanisms. The main purpose is to learn about the web server's remote access capabilities, its ports and services, and other aspects of its security.

The information obtained in this step helps in assessing the security posture of the web server. Footprinting may involve searching the Internet, newsgroups, bulletin boards, etc. for gathering information about the target organization's web server. There are also tools such as Whois.net and Whois Lookup that extract information such as the target's domain name, IP address, and autonomous system number.

Web server fingerprinting is an essential task for any penetration tester. Before proceeding to hack or exploit a webserver, the penetration tester must know the type and version of the webserver as most of the attacks and exploits are specific to the type and version of the server being used by the target. These methods help any penetration tester to gain information and analyze their target so that they can perform a thorough test and can deploy appropriate methods to mitigate such attacks on the server.

An ethical hacker or penetration tester must perform footprinting to detect the loopholes in the web server of the target organization. This will help in predicting the effectiveness of additional security measures for strengthening and protecting the web server of the target organization.

The labs in this exercise demonstrate how to footprint a web server using various footprinting tools and techniques.

Lab Objectives

Footprint a web server using Netcat and Telnet
Enumerate web server information using Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE)

Overview of Web Server Footprinting

By performing web server footprinting, it is possible to gather valuable system-level data such as account details, OS, software versions, server names, and database schema details. Use Telnet utility to footprint a web server and gather information such as server name, server type, OSes, and applications running. Use footprinting tools such as Netcraft, ID Serve, and httprecon to perform web server footprinting. Web server footprinting tools such as Netcraft, ID Serve, and httprecon can extract information from the target server. Let us look at the features and the types of information these tools can collect from the target server.

#Task 1: Footprint a Web Server using Netcat and Telnet
Netcat

Netcat is a networking utility that reads and writes data across network connections, using the TCP/IP protocol. It is a reliable "back-end" tool used directly or driven by other programs and scripts. It is also a network debugging and exploration tool.

Telnet

Telnet is a client-server network protocol. It is widely used on the Internet or LANs. It provides the login session for a user on the Internet. The single terminal attached to another computer emulates with Telnet. The primary security problems with Telnet are the following:

It does not encrypt any data sent through the connection.

It lacks an authentication scheme.

Telnet helps users perform banner-grabbing attacks. It probes HTTP servers to determine the Server field in the HTTP response header.


@Parrot
-root cmd
-type the ff commands:

nc -vv www.moviescope.com 80

sample output:
DNS fwd/rev mismatch: www.moviescope.com != www.goodshopping.com
www.moviescope.com [10.10.1.19] 80 (http) open

-type the ff commd:

GET / HTTP/1.0
Host: www.moviescope.com

-then enter twice. 

*will perform the banner grabbing and gather information such as content type, last modified date, accept ranges, ETag, and server information.

-type the ff commands:

telnet www.moviescope.com 80
GET / HTTP/1.0
Host: www.moviescope.com

*will perform the banner grabbing and gather information such as content type, last modified date, accept ranges, ETag, and server information.


#Task 2: Enumerate Web Server Information using Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE)
The web applications that are available on the Internet may have vulnerabilities. Some hackers' attack strategies may need the Administrator role on your server, but sometimes they simply need sensitive information about the server. Utilizing Nmap and http-enum.nse content returns a diagram of those applications, registries, and records uncovered. This way, it is possible to check for vulnerabilities or abuses in databases. Through this technique, it is possible to discover genuine (and extremely dumb) security imperfections on a site such as some sites (like WordPress and PrestaShop) that maintain accessibility to envelopes that ought to be erased once the task has been settled. Once you have identified a vulnerability, you can discover a fix for it.

Nmap, along with Nmap Scripting Engine, can extract a lot of valuable information from the target web server. In addition to Nmap commands, Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE)provides scripts that reveal various useful information about the target web server to an attacker.

@Parrot
-terminal window, root user

-enumerate the directories used by web servers/ web applications

nmap -sV --script=http-Enum www.goodshopping.com

- discover the hostnames that resolve the targeted domain.

nmap --script hostmap-bfk -script-args hostmap-bfk.prefix=hostmap- www.goodshopping.com

-This script will detect a vulnerable server that uses the TRACE method by sending an HTTP TRACE request that shows if the method is enabled or not.

nmap --script http-trace -d www.goodshopping.com

-check whether Web Application Firewall is configured on the target host or domain.

nmap -p80 --script http-waf-detect www.goodshopping.com

